                            PRINCE OF PERSIA 
                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
  Cracked by J.P.M.     LZH Packed by JAM.      Original and Doc
                                                supplied by Slasher
                                                Bog of The Bog Bros!  
  
  Unlike some other (french) versions knocking about, this version
  does not require you to go looking for certain potions on the
  protection level 2.   Also the graphics are intact 100% Good eh?

  
  KEYS:               CONTROL+G      SAVE GAME POSITION
                      CONTROL+L      LOAD GAME POSITION
                      CONTROL+R      RESTART THE GAME

  NOTE: You can only save or load a game after level 2 and only
        when you are on the title screen!!
        Some other keys are enabled but will only crash the game
        if you press them....    e.g. CONTROL+C     It's not our
        fault ...   the programmer left them in for some unknown
        reason!!       

THE GAME
--------  
It is a time of darkness.While the Sultan is off Fighting a foreign war ( 
 with Saddam-Shed-Head!!  in Iraq ), his Grand Vizier Jaffar has seized the 
reins of power. Throughout the land, the people groan under the yoke of 
tyranny, and  dream of better days.  

  
  
You are the only obstacle between Jaffar and the throne. An adventurer from a 
foreign land, innocent of palace intrigues, you have won the heart of the 
Sultan's lovely young daughter. And in so doing, you have unwittingly made a 
powerful enemy. 
  
  
On Jaffar's orders,you are arrested,( OK that's nothing new )stripped of your 
sword and possessions, and thrown into the Sultan's dungeons. As for the 
Princess, Jaffar gives her a choice, and an hour to decide: Marry him--or die. 
  
  
Locked in her room high in the palace tower, the Princess rests all her hopes 
on you. For when the last sands drain from the hourglass, her choice can bring 
only a throne for the Grand Vizier.... a new rein of terror for his long - 
suffering subjects... and death for the brave youth who might have been... 
Prince of Persia.( no prizes for guessing who that is ) 
  
  
Sword Fighting 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
When you come face to face with an armed opponent, release the joystick. You 
will automatically draw your sword--(but only if you have got one,you'll find 
one if you look for it)--and go en-garde.(french for I'm going to cut your 
tripes out  pal ) In this stance, the controls are somewhat different: 
  
TO STRIKE: Press a joystick button. 
  
TO ADVANCE: Push the joystick in the direction you're facing (towards your 
            opponent). 
  
TO RETREAT: Push the joystick away from your opponent. 
  
  
TO BLOCK YOUR OPPONENT'S STRIKE: Push the joystick up just as your opponent is 
                                 striking. It may take some practice to get 
                                 the timing right. Watch your opponent 
                                 carefully, and wait for him to strike. 
  
TO STOP FIGHTING: Push the joystick down. Once you have put away your sword, 
                  you are free to run, jump and climb as usual. Be careful, 
                  though--when you are off guard, a single sword blow can kill 
                  you. To draw your sword again, press a joystick button. 
  
Life and Death 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
  
The  row of bullets in the lower left corner of the screen indicates your 
current strength. Every time you get hurt, you lose one unit of strength. 
When the last of your strength disappears, you die. 
  
You start the game with three units of strength,(later on, you may be able to 
increase your strength beyond this limit.) 
  
Things that cost you one unit of strength include a blow by a guard's sword, 
two-story falls, and having a section of the floor collapse on your head. 
Other, more serious accidents can kill you outright. 
  
An opponent's strength is indicated by a row of bullets in the lower right 
corner of the screen. To kill an opponent, you need to take away all his 
strength units. 
  
  
Adventuring 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Although this is your first time inside the Sultan's palace, you do have some 
general information that may help you: 
  
The Princess is imprisoned in the high tower of the palace. To reach her, 
you must find your way out of the dungeons,through the palace's main building, 
and up to the top of the tower. ( easy eh ? ) 
  
Generally speaking, the guards on  dungeon duty tend to be the dregs of the 
Sultan's corps. The more capable ones are usually assigned to the palace's 
main building. The very best of them--the deadliest swordsmen in the Sultan's 
employ--are kept for the elite honor guard in the tower, where they are 
responsible for the personal safety of the Princess and of the Grand Vizier. 
  
Since your arrival in the city, you have heard some strange rumors. It is 
whispered that the Grand Vizier Jaffar is a Magician, a master of the black 
arts of enchantment; that his powers are more than mortal. Knowing, as you do, 
that much of what passes for magic is mere trickery and superstition, you are 
reluctant to take these stories too seriously. Nevertheless, they don't do 
much for your peace of mind. 
  
Running, Jumping, and Climbing 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TO TURN AROUND: Tap the joystick to the left or right. 
  
TO RUN: Push the joystick in the direction you want to go (left or right). 
        Release the joystick to stop. 
  
TO TAKE CAREFUL STEPS:Hold down a joystick button and push the joystick in the 
                      direction you want to go . You can use careful steps to 
                      move right up to the edge of a pit or a suspicious 
                      looking floor section. 
  
TO JUMP UP: Push the joystick straight up. 
  
TO JUMP FORWARD: When you are standing still,push the joystick up diagonally 
                 in the direction you want to jump. 
  
You can jump further with a running start. For a running jump over a chasm, 
back up at least two full strides from the edge. Push the joystick forward to 
start running, then up to jump. Don't be afraid of pushing the joystick up too 
early; your character will wait until the last possible moment to jump. 
  
TO CLIMB UP ONTO A LEDGE: Stand facing the ledge and push the joystick 
                          straight up. If necessary, use careful steps to 
                          position yourself below the ledge. 
  
TO HANG FROM A LEDGE: Press a joystick button and hold it down. To let 
                      yourself drop, release the button. To pull yourself up 
                      onto the ledge, push the joystick up. 
  
Any time you jump or fall within reach of a ledge, you can grab onto it by 
pressing a button. Remember--when you release the button, you let go of the 
ledge. 
  
TO CLIMB DOWN FROM A LEDGE: Step up to the edge, turn around, then push the 
                            joystick down. To hang from the ledge, press a 
                            joystick button and hold it down. 
  
TO DUCK: Push the joystick straight down. Release it to stand up. 
  
TO PICK SOMETHING UP: Stand in front of it and press the button. 
  
  
  
Hints 
~~~~~~ 
To get the maximum distance from a standing jump across a chasm, use careful 
steps to move right up to the edge of the pit before you jump. 
  
If you jump a chasm but fall short, you may still be able to grab on to the 
opposite ledge by pushing a button. Remember, when you let go of the button, 
you let go of the ledge. 
  
Every time you block an opponent's sword strike, the force of the blow pushes 
you back slightly. If you adopt a defensive strategy, you will find yourself 
steadily losing ground. Try following up a successful block with a strike of 
your own. 
  
Test for loose floor sections by jumping up and down. 
  
You can knock out a loose floor section by standing directly beneath it and 
jumping up.( Caution don't be there when it lands ) 
  
There are two kinds of pressure-activated floor plates. One kind raises gates, 
the other lowers them. Whit experience, you can learn to distinguish them from 
ordinary floor sections and from each other. 
  
Learn to recognize different kinds of potions by sight. 
  
You can cross a bed of spikes safely by taking careful steps. 
  
A two-story drop will hurt you. A three-story drop will kill you. 
  
You never know what you'll find in a dungeon. Don't be afraid to explore, and 
to experiment. After all,you've got nothing to lose except your life, the 
Princess,and the entire Kingdom.